<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title></title>
  <link href="../Styles/Style0001.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  
<style type="text/css">
body.sgc-1 {word-wrap: break-word; -webkit-nbsp-mode: space; -webkit-line-break: after-white-space;}

  span.sgc-2 {font-weight: normal; font-size: 15px;}
</style>
</head>

<body class="sgc-1">
  <h1 id="heading_id_2">Notes about Haddons who stayed at Naseby.</h1>

  <p>ON the preceding pages have been given the bare chronological facts about the elder branch of the Haddons, who lived the quiet lives of agriculturists at this historic village. With two exceptions, there is nothing to be said about them, save that they have come to the Well of Life and in the words of Edward FitzGerald:&mdash;</p>

  <blockquote cite="Edward%20FitzGerald">
    "Have drunk their cup a round or two before,<br />
    And one by one crept silently to rest."
  </blockquote>

  <p>The first of these two exceptions was Richard Haddon, 1771-1835, who met with a tragic death, that is still remembered in Naseby. In May, 1835, he drove to Northampton to attend, as Churchwarden, the Archdeacon's annual Visitation. On his way home night began to fall, and he stopped his horse to light a lantern. As he was doing so the horse started off again, and the lantern, with its door open, fell out of his hands on to some loose straw that happened to be on the floor of the trap. In a moment the straw caught fire, and aided by the draught caused by the moving vehicle, it flared up so fiercely that before he could stop his restive horse and get out of the trap, his legs were severely burnt. He managed to reach home, but the effect of the burns and the shock were so great that he died within a few days. An inhabitant of Naseby, living in 19I4, remembers as a child seeing the trap with its floor charred by the fire, and also recollects the large attendance at the unfortunate man's funeral.</p>

  <p>The other exception, mentioned above, is William Haddon, 1797-1867, Like his father, whose tragic end has just been described, he lived at Purlieu Farm, Naseby. But not content with a farm only, he started a business as a General Carrier. This was, of course, in the days before railways were known. He developed his business with great energy, and his wagons used to convey goods between different towns in the midlands, and occasionally went as far as Manchester in the one direction and London in the other. But his best claim to a niche in local history is that he carted the stone for the Naseby obelisk, erected in 1823, on the highest point in the parish, as a memorial of the famous Battle of june 14, 1645. The obelisk was raised by Mr. john Purcell FitzGerald and his wife Mary Frances, who had brought him the Naseby estate. They were the parents of Edward FitzGerald, whose translation of Omar Khay yám has given him a place among the immortals of English literature, Though Edward FitzGerald lived chiefly in Suffolk he was extremely fond of visiting Naseby, which he describes as "such glorious country." Here in 1831 he composed The Meadows in Spring, of which Charles Lamb wrote "'Tis a poem I envy."</p>

  <p>The obelisk, for which William Haddon's wagons brought the stone, was curiously enough the cause of a life-long friendship between Edward FitzGerald and Thomas Carlyle. The latter visited Naseby in May, 1842, in company with Dr. Arnold of Rugby. Shortly afterwards he was introduced to Edward FitzGerald in London, and finding that the poet often visited Naseby, he told how he himself had just been there in order the better to describe the battlefield in his forthcoming Letters of Oliver Cromwell. He would not believe that the battle had not been fought near the obelisk, but nearly a mile from it. FitzGerald, however, on his next visit to Naseby opened several graves on the true site of the battle, described to Carlyle how they contained the undoubted bones of the slain, and sent him a tooth from a skull. Carlyle replied with a characteristic letter, in which he spoke of "that blockhead of an obelisk; it might as well stand at Charing Cross." <i>See the Letters of Edward FitzGerald, vol. I. pp. 126 - 131.</i></p>
</body>
</html>
