<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title></title>
  <link href="../Styles/Style0001.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  
<style type="text/css">
body.sgc-1 {word-wrap: break-word; -webkit-nbsp-mode: space; -webkit-line-break: after-white-space;}

  span.sgc-2 {font-weight: normal; font-size: 15px;}

  span.sgc-3 {white-space:pre}

  span.sgc-4 {font-variant: normal; line-height: 22px; font-size: 15px;}
</style>
</head>

<body class="sgc-1 sgc-1">
  <h1 id="heading_id_2">A Brief Note about Mr. and Mrs. Richard Haddon</h1>

  <p><span class="sgc-4">Mr. RICHARD HADDON as a youth showed himself to be a born artist. He assisted his brother, the Rev. T. C. Haddon as Drawing</span> Master in his School at Northampton. In 1834 he made a socially excellent marriage with Miss M. C. Wykes, a stately and beautiful brunette. They opened a school at Croydon, but after some years differences of temperament caused them to agree to separate. Mr. Richard Haddon then maintained himself by his brush. His work was largely landscape, and he excelled in tree foliage. He continued painting until his death in 1875. Mrs. Richard Haddon, when the separation took place, joined her widowed sister, Mrs. Penfold, in keeping a Girls' School at Hampstead for many years. On their retirement from School work, they lived together, and Mrs. Richard Haddon's only daughter, Miss M. E. E. Haddon, resided with them. After they had both died, she joined her brother, Mr. F. W. Haddon, at Melbourne, Australia, where she ended her days.</p>
</body>
</html>
