<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title></title>
  <link href="../Styles/Style0001.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body class="sgc-1">
  <h1 id="heading_id_2">Autobiography of Walter Haddon.</h1>

  <p>Mr. Walter Haddon, in early youth, wished to follow the pursuit of Agriculture as his forefathers had for many generations, but circumstances ordained otherwise. In later life, he returned to Agriculture as a hobby, as a breeder of Hunters. In the year 1914, he was successful in taking the Premium 1st prize for Yearling Colts at the Hunter's Improvement Society held at the Agricultural Hall, London. Mr. Walter Haddon, after several trial periods, was eventually on August 1, 1879, apprenticed to the Printing Trade, to a firm at Great Grimsby where he remained until January 1885. During his apprenticeship and afterwards, he acted as a local correspondent and special reporter for various newspapers, and in this connection instituted the daily market report of the Grimsby Fish Market, which has remained a permanent feature of newspaper market reports.</p>

  <p>On February 1, 1885 Mr. Haddon migrated to London with very little cash resources and without any commercial friends, but was successful in procuring a variety of situations with a number of printers in various capacities. In course of situation-finding he discovered the Firm of John Haddon &amp; Co. Till then these branches of the family by the long process of years and the differences of occupation had lost sight of each other, and were practically unknown to each other. By the coincidence of being a Printer by training, and requiring a situation, the introduction led to his engagement as an assistant to John Haddon &amp; Co. for a period of two years from January, 1888 to 1900, during which period such arrangements were made that, dating from January 1st 1890, he became Sole Proprietor. The business of John Haddon &amp; Co., at the time of its being taken over by Walter Haddon, was, comparatively speaking, a very small affair&mdash;being &nbsp;mainly limited to Exporting, Printing and General Materials. Mr. Walter Haddon initiated a new branch of the business as advertising agents as well as greatly extending the exporting branch. In the early days of his connection with the Firm, Mr. Walter haddon developed the Publishing side of the business, but in subsequent years disposed of this section. During this period, amongst other achievements, he acted as a Literary Agent for many influential writers, including the late George Augustus Sala. Mr. Walter Haddon discovered the well-known black and white artist Mr. Phil may, who at the time was working on the <i>Sydney Bulletin</i>.</p>

  <p>On the invitation of Mr. Walter Haddon, it was arranged that Mr. Phil May should return to England, and until his death, at an early age, the two were great friends. The worldwide known publication, <i>Phil May's Annual</i>&nbsp;was one of the results of this friendship. Another literary venture was the <i>Butterfly</i>, a monthly publication started by a coterie of well-known artists for artists, the chief of their number being Mr. Raven Hill, who subsequently became a member of the <i>Punch</i>&nbsp;staff. For over 20 years Mr. Walter Haddon was associated with the late Mr. W.T. Stead in <i>The Review of Reviews</i>.</p>

  <p>In January, 1897, he started the Caxton Type Foundry, of which a description is given under the account of the Centenary of the Firm. Later on in his commercial career, Mr. Walter Haddon became actively associated with a number of patent devices connected with engineering. This development was the outcome of his purchasing the controlling interests of W. H. Dorman &amp; Co. Ltd., of Stafford, well-known as machine tool makers of high repute, and specialists in the designing and manufacture of Internal Combustion Engines. (During the Great War, this firm played their part by producing, in large quantities, Machiner for the Manufacture of Munitions of War, and was one of the Government Controlled Engineering Works.)</p>

  <p>The patents referred to comprised a variety of commercial subjects, and amongst their number, "Vislok", a Safety Lock Nut. Another, and equally successful patent was the vaporization of paraffin for Internal combustion engines. The development of this was a tedious experiment, but eventually it proved a valuable success.</p>

  <p>In engineering and scientific circles, unquestionably, the name of Mr. Walter Haddon will always be associuated with that of his colleague and partner, Mr. George Constantinesco, the discoverer and inventor of Wave Transmission.</p>

  <p>The discover of Wave Transmission marks a distinct era in the progress of applied mechanics. The problem how to transmit and apply created power, by cheap and simple appliances, to its desired destination, and to do so efficiently and reliably has always been the dream and ambition of inventors, physicists and engineers, and has been the subject of innumerable patents dating from the discovery of steam power. Wave Tra</p>
</body>
</html>
