<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title></title>
  <link href="../Styles/Style0001.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body class="sgc-1">
  <h1 id="heading_id_2">The Centenary of John Haddon &amp; Co.</h1>

  <p>SOME idea of the origin and history of John Haddon and Co. will have been gathered from the <i>Brief Accounts</i>&nbsp;of its founder and his two successors. But the fact that the firm celebrated its Centenary in 1914 seems to call for a somewhat fuller description of its career.</p>

  <p>It was started in 1814, as purely a printing business. Among other things, Mr. John Haddon used to print the Official Reports of the Baptist Missionary Society. This brought his name before the Baptist Missionaries abroad, and they began to ask him to export to them any religious literature that they might require. It was but a step further to ship other goods along with religious works. Then gradually others, besides Baptist Missionaries, began to apply to Mr. John Haddon to send them goods. Thus a general export trade was built up. It has grown steadily until to-day the Firm acts as a buying agency for goods of every conceiveable character, and exports them to all parts of the civilised world; and to many parts of the uncivilised. All kinds of commissions are carried out for merchants and planters in India, Ceylon, Malay States, China, Japan, Australasia, Africa, South, Central, East and West ; the West Indies and all parts of North and South America. From the early days of its existence, the Firm has also been importers of produce from the British Colonies, especially from the West Indies. That business has also expanded with the passing years, till now its imports come from as many lands as its exports reach.</p>

  <p>It must not, however, be suposed that the Firm has allowed its activities as a carrying Agency to deprive it of prominence in the printing trade. On the contrary, it has shown even greater development, especially in the last twenty-five years, in its original <i>metier</i>&nbsp;of printing, or rather in the ancillary branch of type-founding. This department was created by Mr. Walter Haddon, on January 1, 1897, and was commenced iat 96a, Old Street, St. Lukes, E.C., and removed, in 1898, to Market Harborough, in Leicestershire.</p>

  <p>There he erected the Caxton Type Foundry&mdash;a very extensive set of premises, constructed on up-to-date lines as a model factory. The latest kinds of typemaking machinery are there at work in airy, well-lighted workshops, which are provided with every convenience and comort for the employés. It was the fisrst British foundry to be established for casting British type on the American point system, which ensures exact uniformity in size of the type bodies. Such uniformity can be attained only by very scientific methods of manufacture, involing the most exact measurements down to the one-thousandth part of an inch. Mr. Walter Haddon created a revolution in the British Printing Trade by this introduction of the Point System, and in spite of virulent opposition, amounting at first to a boycott of his Firm by the older Type Foundries, he has lived to see it win its way into general use. <i>The Times</i>&nbsp;in its special issue of &nbsp;Tuesday, September 10, 1012, on the Art of Printing, referred to Mr. Walter Haddon's initiative work as follows:&mdash;</p>

  <blockquote>
    "Previous to the introduction of the Point System, the standard for size of type in England was far from uniform amongst the different founders&mdash;the same being the same with regard to the position of the line&mdash;and the forst type cast on this system was gradually making its way from America and Germany, and having to face, if not absolute opposition on the part of English makers, at least a very cold welocme, when the question of standardization of point and line was taken up upon a practical and commercial scale, and with great determination in face of many difficulties, by Mr. Walter haddon of the Caxton Foundry. This reformer's case has been different from that of most advocates of improvement, for he lives to see the almost universal adoption of the Point Body and the Point Line, which he championed."
  </blockquote>

  <p>Akin to typefounding, and necessary for the production of illustrated literature, is the manufacture of zinc and copper plates for etchings and engravings. This industry was almost entirely in the hands of American and German Firms until, in 1912, John Haddon &amp; Co. opened Works at Clapham, S.W. The plates turned out there have largely ousted those of foreign manufacture, and the Firms Centenary saw the capaxcity of the works in process of being doubled.&nbsp;</p>

  <p>The Lord Mayor of London, opening the International Printers' Exhibition, held in London, in May 1914, prefaced his speech by saying:&mdash;</p>

  <blockquote>
    "Perhaps he might be pardoned the personal mention that it was of great interest to be conducted through Haddon Hall, and to meet his old friend and acquaintance, Mr. Walter Haddon. He was very pleased indeed to find what an important personality in the craft Mr. Haddon had become, and what a large exhibit he made."
  </blockquote>

  <p>Another of the manifold activities of John Haddon &amp; Co., which the Centenary saw in full swing, is the Advertising Agency. This, like other departments of the business, has its roots far back in the Firm's history, but its chief growth has been manifest in recent years.&nbsp;</p>

  <p>The results that this brief sketch shows to have been attained by a hundred years of ever-widening activity, cannot but redound to the credit of all who have contributed to them. &nbsp;But history should beget history, and teh past prove an incentive to the future. As Virgil of old sang, <i>Labor omnia vincit</i> (Labour conquers all things), and in view of the great fields of achievement that lie open to progressive men of business to-day, John Haddon &amp; Co. will not, like Alexander the Great, sit still and sigh that "There are no more worlds to conquer."</p>
</body>
</html>
