<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title></title>
  <link href="../Styles/Style0001.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  
<style type="text/css">
body.sgc-1 {word-wrap: break-word; -webkit-nbsp-mode: space; -webkit-line-break: after-white-space;}

  span.sgc-2 {font-weight: normal; font-size: 15px;}

  span.sgc-3 {white-space:pre}

  span.sgc-4 {font-variant: normal; line-height: 22px; font-size: 15px;}

  span.sgc-5 {font-size: 15px;}
</style>
</head>

<body class="sgc-1">
  <h1 id="heading_id_2">A Short Description of the Village of Naseby</h1>

  <p>"Few spots of ground in all the world are memorable to an Englishman."&mdash;Thomas Carlyle.</p>

  <p>At this point where our narrative practically ceases to mention Naseby, some account of this historic village seems appropriate.&nbsp;It will no doubt be of interest to those members of the family who have never visited their ancestral home, and&nbsp;particularly to the 47 Haddons, and the 13 descendants of Haddons down the female line, who are mentioned in&nbsp;this book as now living in our Colonies. Naseby is a picturesque village that stands perched amid the uplands&nbsp;of North-western Northamptonshire. The weathercock on its church spire is the highest thing in the county, being&nbsp;about 760 feet above sea level. Thence on a clear afternoon the sun's rays can be seen shining on the North Sea, some 60 miles away.</p>

  <p>When John Haddon, whose life has just been related, and his ancestors farmed at Naseby, the parish was still an "open field"&nbsp;with no hedges, few trees, and roads that were mere cart tracks across the land; and this state of things lasted till 1822. All the&nbsp;houses, save three or four, were built of the tenacious Upper Lias clay mixed with straw-as they still were in 1842 when Thomas&nbsp;Carlyle visited the village. His terse words give us a vivid picture:</p>

  <blockquote>
    "The old hamlet of Naseby stands yet, on its hill top, very much as it did in Saxon days &mdash;-a peaceable old hamlet, with clay cottages for labourers, but&nbsp;neatly thatched and swept; smith's shop, saddler's shop, beer shop, all in order, forming a kind of square which leads off southwards into two long streets; the&nbsp;old church with its graves stands in the centre."
  </blockquote>

  <p>But now at Naseby, as elsewhere, "old times are changed, old manners gone." A new inn and new smith's shop, of staring&nbsp;brick, replace what Carlyle saw, though the old saddler's shop fortunately remains to form a thing of beauty at the Western entrance&nbsp;of the village. The rest of the thatched clay cottages, with five or six exceptions, have given place to those of brick. Most of these have&nbsp;those "roofs of slated hideousness" so hateful to Tennyson; but along the road from the East towards the Church and the Manor&nbsp;House where John Haddon lived, there have been built picturesque red tiled cottages with pleasant gardens round them. The stately Church with great century-old chestnut trees half encircling it, and the glorious Tithe Barn hard by, built, in 1651, of huge oak beams&nbsp;with intervening panels of lath and plaster dappled with moss, combine to form as attractive a picture as any English village can show.</p>

  <p>The fact that Shakespeare's Avon has its source at Naseby has been stated on the previous page. In Edward FitzGerald, Naseby may claim a connection with another poet, as mentioned <a href="../Text/haddons-naseby.xhtml">on page 23</a>.</p>

  <p>Naseby's chief renown rests, of course, on the famous Battle of Saturday, June 14, 1645, when the army of Charles the First&nbsp;"after three hours' fight, very doubtful"&mdash;as Oliver Cromwell himself wrote the same evening&mdash;was broken by the larger forces&nbsp;(nearly two to one), of Generals Fairfax and Cromwell. It is impossible here to give an adequate account of the battle, that decided&nbsp;the downfall of the King's cause. The positions of the two armies on the field are known almost to a yard, and several large graves,&nbsp;where the slain were buried together, can still be seen with their mounds sunk into hollows, and occasionally bullets are still turned&nbsp;up by the plough.</p>
</body>
</html>
