<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title></title>
  <link href="../Styles/Style0001.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  <style type="text/css">
/*<![CDATA[*/

  body.sgc-1 {word-wrap: break-word; -webkit-nbsp-mode: space; -webkit-line-break: after-white-space;}

  span.sgc-2 {font-weight: normal; font-size: 15px;}

  span.sgc-3 {white-space:pre}

  span.sgc-4 {font-variant: normal; line-height: 22px; font-size: 15px;}
  /*]]>*/
  </style>
</head>

<body class="sgc-1">
  <h1 id="heading_id_2">A Brief Note About Mr. F. W. Haddon.</h1>

  <p><span class="sgc-4">When little over twenty years of age, Mr. F. W. Haddon became Assistant Secretary</span> of the Statistical Society and Institute of Actuaries, London. In 1863, he went out to Australia as private Secretary to Mr. Edward Wilson, the Senior Proprietor of The Melbourne Argus, and shortly afterwards became the first Editor of The Australasian. In 1867, he was appointed to the very important post of Editor of The Melbouren Argus, being only twenty eight years old. He occupied the Editorial chair for no less than 31 years, fully maintaining the high position of that Paper. Two of the chief aims of his Editorship were to urge the desirability of Australian federation, and to preserve intact the Second Chamber, called the Legislative Council, of Victoria. He lived to see both these objects successfully accomplished. On his retirement from the Editorship in 1898, he was placed on the Proprietary Board of his Paper as the Edward Wilson Representative, and held that position till his death, which occurred after a very short illness.</p>

  <p>Mr. Haddon possessed a dispassionate mind and clear insight. with imperturbable temper he kept steadily to any course that he had decided was right. He had a marked gift for discovering promising talent, and for bringing out the best powers of his subordinates, and won the affection as well as the respect of his Staff.</p>
</body>
</html>
