<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title></title>
  <link href="../Styles/Style0001.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  <style type="text/css">
/*<![CDATA[*/

  body.sgc-1 {word-wrap: break-word; -webkit-nbsp-mode: space; -webkit-line-break: after-white-space;}
  /*]]>*/
  </style>
</head>

<body class="sgc-1 sgc-1">
  <h1 id="heading_id_2"><span class="sgc-1">Introduction</span></h1>

  <p>THE name Haddon is undoubtedly one of those British surnames which are derived from the name of a place. Until about the year 1350 there were very few surnames in use in Britain. A man bore his baptismal name only, and was distinguished from others who bore the same baptismal name by his trade, some personal characteristic, or by his place of origin. Thus, when a man named John went forth from one of the places named Haddon and settled elsewhere, he was known in his new place of abode as John of Haddon. Soon after 1350 the "of" was dropped, and such a man came to be called John Haddon.<br /></p>

  <p>There are three parishes in England called Haddon. One of them is in Huntingdonshire, and two&mdash;East Haddon and West Haddon&mdash;are in Northamptonshire, There are also the townships of Over Haddon and Nether Haddon, in the parish of Bakewell, in Derbyshire. In the latter of these stands the famous Haddon Hall. Further, a Manor of Haddon forms part of the parish of Bampton, Oxfordshire; a Manor of Caundle Haddon is found in the parish of Caundle Stourton, Dorset. It was owned by a John of Haddon at his death in 1302. <i>(Hutchin's Dorset, III p. 665, and the Fine Roll, October 22, 1302.)</i><br /></p>

  <p>In Scotland there is the village of Hadden, in the parish of Sprouston, Roxburghshire, in which, no doubt, the Scotch Haddens had their original home. The most famous of them was probably Sir John Hadden, who fell at the Battle of Dunbar, in 1650.</p>

  <p>Here it may be remarked that Hadden is a frequent variant of Haddon in English documents down to modern times. The forms Haden, Haddan and, occasionally, Haddyn are also found; but Haddon is the most frequent of all.</p>

  <p>The late Professor W. W. Skeat, in his <i>Place Names of Huntingdonshire</i>, published by the Cambridge Antiquarian Society, of which, by the way, Dr. A. C. Haddon was recently President, gives the following account of the place named Haddon in that county :&mdash;" In Saxon times it was called Headdandune. The sense is Headda's down, or in <a id="flip">the</a> old Mercian spelling, Hadda's down. The old Mercian Hadda is a known personal name." The same derivation almost certainly holds true of the other villages called Haddon. Each gained its name from its situation on a down, or hill, which belonged to a Saxon named Hadda.</p>

  <p>This derivation is strikingly confirmed by the existence&mdash;apparently unknown to Professor Skeat&mdash;of a hill named Haddon Down Hill a few miles East of Dulverton, Somerset.</p>

  <p>The name Hadda also appears in Haddenham, which means "the home of the Haddas" and in Haddington, which means "the town of the Haddings, or children of Hadda"&mdash;the "ing" being a patronymic suffix.</p>

  <p>The fact that some six or seven places in Britain bore the name Haddon, largely accounts for the wide area over which men "of Haddon" were spread from very early times. But of course most of these emigrants "of Haddon" were not related to one another. Some of those who went forth from the same village may have been related, but by no means all of them.</p>

  <p>As early as the 13th and 14th centuries men called "of Haddon " owned land or occupied public positions in various parts of England. For instance, before the year 1316 Haddons owned land at Ilebruer (now Isle Brewers), in Somerset, and Sir Henry of Haddon of that place had married Elianor, daughter of Sir Matthew of Furneaux <i>(Miscellanea Genealogica et Heraldica, 3rd Series, V0l. III, p. 273.)</i>. The Patent Roll of June I, 1363, gives a John of Haddon as the King’s Serjeant-at-Arms. The Close Roll of November 6, 1365, records the death of William of Haddon, Abbot of Thorney Abbey, near Peterborough. The Archives of Lincoln Cathedral preserve the Will of John of Haddon, one of its Canons, who died in 1374 possessed of very considerable wealth.</p>

  <p>Nearly a hundred years earlier than this last date we find that London had attracted to itself a Haddon&mdash;as it has in every subsequent century. In the Will of Dame Cecilia Harding, which was proved in the Court of Hustings, London, on February 22, 1280, occurs the name of "my brother, William of Haddon." This is the earliest mention of a Haddon in any Will.</p>

  <p>Perhaps to the same family belonged John Haddon, draper, of London, who died early in 1427. It is a most interesting fact that his Will, proved in the Court of Hustings on March 26, 1427, shows that he lived and died in the parish of St. Brigid (now called St. Bride) in Fleet Street, very near the spot where the Head Office of John Haddon &amp; Co. now stands. This John Haddon was buried in the Church of St. Bride, Fleet Street. Somewhere beneath its floor the dust of his body lies to-day, and every sunny morning the graceful spire of St. Bride’s casts its shadow on the Head Office of the Firm which bears his name, Probably no other Firm in the City of London can claim that a namesake lived 500 years ago almost on the site of its present office.</p>

  <p>As we come down to the 16th and 17th centuries, when Wills become more plentiful and Parish Registers begin, we find numerous Haddons spread over many counties. One or two are men of national eminence, several are gentry and clergy, many are yeomen, and some follow humbler occupations.</p>

  <p>We will deal first with Sir Richard Haddon, Lord Mayor of London, and his even more famous grandson, Dr. Walter Haddon, and then mention the Haddons who are to be found in various counties.</p>
</body>
</html>
