<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title></title>
  <link href="../Styles/Style0001.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  <style type="text/css">
/*<![CDATA[*/

  body.sgc-1 {word-wrap: break-word; -webkit-nbsp-mode: space; -webkit-line-break: after-white-space;}

  span.sgc-2 {font-weight: normal; font-size: 15px;}

  span.sgc-3 {white-space:pre}

  span.sgc-4 {font-variant: normal; line-height: 22px; font-size: 15px;}

  span.sgc-5 {font-size: 15px;}
  /*]]>*/
  </style>
</head>

<body class="sgc-1 sgc-1">
  <h1 id="heading_id_2">John Haddon of Finsbury and Upper Tooting.</h1>

  <p>Mr. John Haddon, the eldest son of the founder of John Haddon &amp; Co. by his second wife, was born in City Road, London, on May 1, 1823. After being educated at University School, he helped his father in his business for a time, and on April 4, 1843, he became apprenticed to “John Cross, Citizen and Stationer of London”, as his indenture expresses it.</p>

  <p>After his apprenticeship he joined his father's firm, and at his death in 1855, he became the proprietor. In 1857 the Firm moved from 24, Castle Street, Finsbury to 3, Bouverie Street. A branch was opened in Budge Row in 1871, and moved to Leadenhall Street in 1873. Previous to this, about 1868, Mr. Haddon had taken Mr. James Watchurst as partner, and the firm then became John Haddon &amp; Co. Mr Watchurst withdrew about 1871, and Mr. Haddon conducted the business by himself for some ten years. After that, Mr. W.O.E. de Hellinger Löhnstein became partner for a time. in 1888 Mr. Haddon's second cousin, Mr. Walter Haddon, joined the Firm, and when Mr. Haddon retired he became its head.</p>

  <p>Mr. Haddon had several hobbies in life. He inherited his father's love of music, and was a player of the violincello. Like his father, Mr. Haddon found his musical gifts useful in his business. He published several hymn and tune books, notably, <i>The Psalmist</i> and <i>Psalms and Hymns</i>. As a youth, Mr. Haddon was an enthusiastic cricketer, and he kept up his interest in the game to the very end of life. Gardening was also one of his hobbies.</p>

  <p>Mr. Haddon took much interest in the welfare of working men, encouraging them to attend classes for ambulance work, and for general self-improvement. Mr. Haddon was also one of the first in the City of London to employ women in counting-house work.</p>

  <p>Mr. Haddon's religious life was very real and thorough. For many years he was a deacon at the various Chapels which he attended. He took great interest in Sunday School work, being himself an active teacher up to the age of 70.</p>

  <p>After a brief and painless ilness, the result of a chill, Mr. Haddon passed away on Dec. 10, 1904, aged 81, and was laid to rest beside his gifted wife. Her literary works are enumerated on page 70 under her <i>nom de plume</i>, Caroline Hadley. On page 61, are given brief notices and photographs of their two gifted sons.</p>
</body>
</html>
