<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title></title>
  <link href="../Styles/Style0001.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  <style type="text/css">
/*<![CDATA[*/

  body.sgc-1 {word-wrap: break-word; -webkit-nbsp-mode: space; -webkit-line-break: after-white-space;}

  span.sgc-2 {font-weight: normal; font-size: 15px;}

  span.sgc-3 {white-space:pre}

  span.sgc-4 {font-variant: normal; line-height: 22px; font-size: 15px;}

  span.sgc-5 {font-size: 15px;}
  /*]]>*/
  </style>
</head>

<body class="sgc-1">
  <h1 id="heading_id_2">History of John Haddon, the Founder of John Haddon &amp; Co.</h1>

  <p><span class="sgc-4">MR. JOHN HADDON was born at Naseby on&nbsp;</span>August 7, 1784. His father farmed part of the&nbsp;"Open Field" of Naseby, where the fortunes&nbsp;of King Charles received such a fatal&nbsp;blow on June 14, 1645. Mr. Haddon&nbsp;used to tell his children in after&nbsp;years how, as a boy, he had often&nbsp;picked up on his father's farm&nbsp;bullets that had been fired in the&nbsp;famous battle. His mother was a&nbsp;woman of culture and refinement,&nbsp;and he, no doubt, inherited from her,&nbsp;his decided taste for literature.</p>

  <p>Mr. John Haddon received the&nbsp;chief part of his education in Northampton&nbsp;at the school of Mr. Richard Comfield, whose sister afterwards&nbsp;became the wife of Mr. John&nbsp;Haddon's cousin, Thomas Haddon of Olney (<a href="../Text/thomas-haddon-olney.xhtml">see page 36</a>). At the age&nbsp;of 15 Mr. John Haddon was apprenticed&nbsp;to Mr. Morris, a printer at&nbsp;Clipston, near Naseby, with whom&nbsp;he moved to Dunstable towards the&nbsp;close of his apprenticeship. Mr.&nbsp;Morris printed the early publications&nbsp;of the Baptist Missionary Society,&nbsp;and thus his apprentice became well acquainted with the work of&nbsp;that Society, in which he took a&nbsp;great interest all his life. At Dunstable&nbsp;he formally became a member of the Baptist Community.</p>

  <p>About 1806 Mr. John Haddon came up to London, where he&nbsp;spent the rest of his life. In 1810 he married for his first wife&nbsp;Miss M. A. Blyth, of Langham, Essex, by whom he had two&nbsp;sons, John, who died in infancy, and Daniel Blyth, whose&nbsp;descendants are set forth on the opposite page.</p>

  <p>In 1814 Mr. John Haddon took the most important step of&nbsp;his life in founding the Printing&nbsp;Business that is now known as John&nbsp;&nbsp;Haddon &amp; Co., and last year celebrated&nbsp;its Centenary. Its birthplace&nbsp;was 12, Tabernacle Walk, Finsbury&nbsp;Square. After a few years it was&nbsp;moved to Castle Street, behind&nbsp;Tabernacle Walk. It started as&nbsp;purely a printing business, and was&nbsp;one of the very few Firms of that&nbsp;day which had a stereotype foundry.&nbsp;Among the various works which&nbsp;it published we can well imagine&nbsp;that its Founder must have taken a special interest in The History of&nbsp;Naseby, his birthplace, the second&nbsp;edition of which was printed and&nbsp;published by him in 1813 for its author, the Rev. John Mastin, Vicar&nbsp;of Naseby.</p>

  <p>Mr. John Haddon also printed&nbsp;a considerable amount of religious&nbsp;literature for the Baptists, and&nbsp;particularly for the use of their&nbsp;foreign Missions. When sending&nbsp;such literature abroad, he was often&nbsp;asked by the missionaries to forward&nbsp;other goods at the same time.</p>

  <p>Thus began the export trade in general goods which now&nbsp;forms a part of the manifold activities of John Haddon &amp; Co.&nbsp;In 1815 Mr. John Haddon lost his first wife, and for seven&nbsp;years remained a widower.</p>

  <p>When he was on a visit to his sister, Mrs. Elizabeth Carryer, at Leicester, Mr. John Haddon became acquainted with&nbsp;Miss Elizabeth Cort, and in 1822 he married her as his second wife. She was the eldest of the four daughters of Mr. James&nbsp;Cort, a Merchant, of Leicester, whose wife had died when her youngest daughter was born. Thus Mr. Cort had the task of&nbsp;bringing up his daughters&mdash;a task that he most ably carried out. His wife had been a daughter of the Rev. Thomas Robinson,&nbsp;Vicar of S. Mary's, Leicester, and author of Scripture Characters, a very well known book of that day. A tradition that he was&nbsp;descended from a Lord Grantham, whose family name was Robinson, seems to be unfounded. His father was James Robinson, a&nbsp;woolstapler of Wakefield.</p>

  <p>Mr. Cort was wise enough to give them the best education that was then possible. Miss Elizabeth Cort was sent to the famous&nbsp;school kept by Miss Cleobury, at Nottingham, where among other things, she learnt painting from the subsequently noted artist,&nbsp;Bonington, who was Turner's master. It was thus a highly cultured wife, whom Mr. John Haddon took to his home in City Road,&nbsp;London. Soon after the birth of their eldest son, they moved to 25, Tabernacle Walk, Finsbury Square, where, as time went on, three&nbsp;sons and nine daughters were born. A charming picture of their family life, as well as of the careers of their daughters, is drawn&nbsp;in Mrs. Bayne's booklet, Five Sisters and a School, published by Berryman &amp; Sons, Blackheath Road, S. E. There it is shown how&nbsp;keen an interest Mr. and Mrs. John Haddon took in the &nbsp;philanthropic movements of the time, not least in that for the abolition of&nbsp;slavery. One of their sons was named Wilberforce, after the great abolitionist, William Wilberforce. Many philanthropists and&nbsp;foreign missionaries found a ready and hospitable welcome in that enlightened home. Mr. and Mrs. John Haddon naturally took care&nbsp;that their children had an excellent education, which five of their daughters handed on to numerous pupils in their school at Dover.&nbsp;They all inherited and developed a love of drawing and poetry from their mother, and musical talents from their father who had a&nbsp;fine and cultivated bass voice and a very sensitive ear.</p>

  <p>It was, no doubt, his musical gifts that made Mr. John Haddon dissatisfied with the music then used in Baptist Services; and he&nbsp;determined to improve it. For this purpose he brought out, between 1838 and 1842, The Psalmist and The New Selection Hymn Book.&nbsp;These publications at first met with opposition from those who were wedded to the older style of music; but eventually they won&nbsp;wide acceptance, and did much to elevate the musical taste of Baptist congregations. Mr. Haddon also published a considerable&nbsp;amount of secular music. The works which he printed included Dr. Adam Clarke's Bible, and the earlier volumes of the well-known&nbsp;Bohn's Library. He himself was fond of literary work and wrote many articles upon current religious topics for The Baptist&nbsp;Magazine and The Eclectic Review. Not long before his death he composed an essay upon Immortality, which was afterwards published&nbsp;in book form. (See page 70). Though a strong Nonconformist, he was not narrow in his views. He constantly used to say, "I prefer&nbsp;to find points of contact, not of difference, with my fellow Christians."</p>

  <div>
    <br />
  </div>
</body>
</html>
