<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title></title>
  <link href="../Styles/Style0001.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body class="sgc-1">
  <h1 id="heading_id_2">A Brief Account of Thomas Joseph Haddon of Clipston.</h1>

  <p>Mr. Thomas Joseph Haddon, the only child of Mr. Joseph Haddon of Naseby, had the great misfortune to lose his father when he was four years old. Mr Joseph Haddon was attacked by illness, and in the hope of a cure, he was taken by his brother John to Folkestone. While he was there he was baptised in the sea, going into the water on crutches. He had a beautiful bass voice, and, so long as strength lasted, he used to assemble young men in his rooms a t Folkestone for musical evenings, he himself playing the flute.</p>

  <p>The treatment proved unsuccesful, and he returned home to die. His body was laid to rest in Naseby churchyard beside his father and mother on June 17, 1825. A slate tombstone there still clearly records his death at the age of twenty-nine.</p>

  <p>His widow, Mrs. Ruth Haddon with her only son, Thomas Joseph, shortly afterwards removed herself to her native village of Clipston, three miles from Naseby, where her husband had held the farm formerly cultivated by his father, Mr. John Haddon of Naseby and Clipston.</p>

  <p>This farm, Mrs. Haddon retained&mdash;as the Churchwardens' Rate Book at Clipston shows&mdash;till on April 3, 1828, she married Mr. John Eaton, of Clipston, as her second husband.</p>

  <p>Under their care Thomas Joseph was brought up. He attended the Baptist Sunday School and Chapel, of which his father and grandfather had been Deacons. His religious life all his days centred round the Chapel and its Services, and for thirty-five years he acted as the Superintendent of its Sunday School.</p>

  <p>In 1847 Mr Thomas Joseph Haddon married miss Mary Watkins, of Clipston. They had played together as children, and thier married life of nearly fifty years proved as happy to them both as their childhood's hours of play. Eleven children were born to them, and with the exception of one who died in infancy, they were all living at Mr. Haddon's death, and all prospering in various walks of life&mdash;two of them helping to build up the Empire in South Africa.</p>

  <p>Mr. Haddon followed his ancestors' profession of agriculture, being tenant of their Clipston Farm, which is now cultivated by his son, Mr. Joseph Haddon, and has thus been held since 1815 by four generations of Haddons, and will in due course be occupied by his son John, a member of the fifth generation, who is now associated with his father in farming it</p>

  <p>Mr. Haddon's hand was ever generous towards the poor in the village. He served their interests well as a Guardian and a Trustee. After an illness of several months, Mr. Haddon passed away on September 11, 1893, at the age of 72, and was laid to rest in the Graveyard of the Chapel which he loved so well.</p>
</body>
</html>
