<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title></title>
  <link href="../Styles/Style0001.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body class="sgc-1">
  <h1 id="heading_id_2">Thomas Robinson Haddon (page missing)</h1>

  <p>'successful' man. He had qualities of mind and soul which shut him out of the limelight. But he was one of the leavening forces which have served to purify colonial life, to widen its visions, to uphold its ideals, and give moral quality to its movements. Men have died for South Africa; he lived for her. Some have used South Africa as a stepping-stone to personal advancement or vulgar self-advertisement. He was one of those hidden hosts who flung soul and body down to be ploughed into her soil and enrich her for all the ages to come. How he loved South Africa, revelled in her beauty, wrestled with her problems, shared her crusts, and gloried in her future! Ah me! That we had more like him! I knew him in his home, in Johannesburg, a home which in that city of the Homeless gathered about it all the charm of an English fireside, and all the freedom of an African stoep. I knew him as a refugee in Durban in the dark days, keeping through all a gaiety of soul, and a sweetness of temper. I knew him amidst the hurly-burly of the Rand, and have found him, when he was Secretary of the Safe Deposit, watching over his treasure house, there ‘’tween chains,’ but revelling in Browning, or chanting Logfellow and Omar Khayyam! Over his head men watched the markets, and fought for&nbsp;‘Wild Cats’, but he jangled his magic keys to the music of the spheres, and was gloriously happy over a new book! Truly, as Kipling sings,</p>

  <blockquote cite="Rudyard%20Kipling">
    On the bones of the English,<br />
    The English Flag is stayed.
  </blockquote>

  <p>But surely it is no less on the hears of the English, on their real culture of mind, and on their character-value. There for a life time, in a Land of Expediency, through days of darkened intrigue, in times of panic and passion, through years of drought and dread, of pestilence and many wars&mdash;</p>

  <blockquote>
    he bore without reproach<br />
    The grand old name of Gentleman !
  </blockquote>

  <p>I wonder if he had any enemies! I think not, and yet he was not of the weak fraternity of smirk-makers who cannot hate. He wore the white flower, but never the white feather. the past few years brought him grief, and he was sore smitten by the arrows of bitter sorrow. But he wrote to me in the clanging words of W. E. Henley&mdash;</p>

  <blockquote>
    In the fell clutch of Circumstance,<br />
    I have not winced nor cried aloud.
  </blockquote>

  <p>And now that he rests in the land he loved, and has ‘pass’d to where, beyond these voices there is peace,᾿ we wail no requiem, and cherish no grief. Such a maker of Empire-makers cannot die while the nation he helped to make lives. So I lay this tribute to his grave, and in words he often quoted from Browning’s ‘Grammarian’&mdash;</p>

  <blockquote>
    Leave him&ndash;still loftier than the world suspects<br />
    Living and dying."
  </blockquote>
</body>
</html>
