<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title></title>
  <link href="../Styles/Style0001.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  
<style type="text/css">
body.sgc-1 {word-wrap: break-word; -webkit-nbsp-mode: space; -webkit-line-break: after-white-space;}

  span.sgc-2 {font-weight: normal; font-size: 15px;}

  span.sgc-3 {white-space:pre}
</style>
</head>

<body class="sgc-1">
  <h1 id="heading_id_2">Brief Account of William Haddon of Hollowell</h1>

  <p>THERE is a family tradition that in his early youth William Haddon went from his home at Naseby to Yorkshire, accompanied by his brother John, the grandfather of Mr. John Haddon, who in 1814 founded in London the Firm of John Haddon &amp; Co., which last year celebrated its centenary. The object of their journey was to purchase unbroken horses, which on their return they sold in Northamptonshire, and with the profits took farms&mdash;John at Naseby, and William at Hollowell, a hamlet in the parish of Guilsborough, some five miles south of Naseby. There seems no reason to doubt the truth of this old family tradition. just before he settled at Hollowell, William Haddon married Miss Sarah Langley of Clipston, a village adjoining Naseby. The family of Langley had long held a good position there. We find, for instance, that Augustus Langley, "yeoman of Clipston," was Patron of the Rectory of the adjacent parish of Great Oxendon in 1623.</p>

  <p>The children of William and Sarah Haddon were all baptised at Guilsborough Church, except Thomas, the youngest, who was born in 1775. This fact is interesting, for it gives us the approximate date when the Haddons of Hollowell left the Church of England and became Baptists. Their grandson, the late Rev. T. C. Haddon, for 45 years Vicar of Tunstall, Norfolk, has left on record the reason for this change of belief It appears that they and some other inhabitants of Hollowell and Guilsborough found little profit in the ministrations of the Rev. John Bullivant, Vicar of Guilsborough, and consequently went to Creaton Church, where the Vicar, Mr. Maddock, was a noted preacher. When he left Creaton, the Haddons and their friends, not liking his successor, built a Baptist Chapel at Nortoft in Guilsborough, with land for a graveyard behind it.</p>

  <p>The Haddons became intimately connected with members of the Baptist community at Guilsborough through the marriages of their daughters. Anna Haddon married William Pell, a tallow chandler, and Elizabeth Haddon married Richard Harris, a baker. The families of Pell and Harris were both Baptists, as gravestones in the Baptist Burial Ground at Guilsborough abundantly testify. In fact, one of the ministers of the chapel belonged to the family of Harris. In that graveyard, William Haddon saw his wife laid to rest in 1798, and his son Edward seven years later. In 1806, William Haddon himself was buried in the same quiet spot. To their memory was erected a slate tombstone, which stands to-day (1915) with its well-preserved words:&mdash;</p>

  <blockquote>
    "In Memory of William Haddon, who Departed this Life October 31, 1806. Aged 71.<br />
    Also Sarah his Wife, who died November 10, 1798. Aged 60.<br />
    Also Edward Haddon, their son, died July 27, 1805. Aged 34."
  </blockquote>

  <p>It would appear that William and Sarah Haddon were conspicuous for their strong religious convictions, and lived honourable and industrious lives, bringing up their children well. Their daughters married respectable tradespeople of the same religious views. Three of their sons appear to have been living in Guilsborough when William Haddon made his will in 1801. But their youngest son, Thomas Haddon, had then removed to Olney in Buckinghamshire. He was the genius of the family, and his children and grandchildren have shown considerable intellectual gifts. But the story of his life demands separate treatment.</p>
</body>
</html>
